back at the water's edge some of the
gentoos are bringing pebbles ashore from
the seabed there are no trees on
Antarctica so instead of using twigs or
leaves to build nests these penguins
make theirs from small stones picking
out the best one and carrying it all the
way to the nest site is the penguin
equivalent of giving a loved one a box
of chocolates during the summer months
Port Lockroy
is under almost 24-hour daylight and the
sea ice is finally starting to break up
outside the post office the couple under
the Union Jack are busy building up
their nest down behind the Boatshed this
pair of penguins is well ahead of the
game
we've lucked out and have found an old
nest already free of snow
over the past week they've been adding
new stones piling them one on top of the
other to create good drainage from snow
and rain
a dry nest is essential if these birds
are to have any success in raising young
[Music]
penguins are fiercely protective of
their pile of stones and because nests
are so tightly packed together in the
colony neighborly disputes constantly
break out the nests left unattended for
more than a few seconds is in danger of
being stolen
[Music]